Welcome to the official SaaStr podcast
where you can hear some of the best
SaaStr [music] speakers. This is where
the cloud meets.
Up today on the [music] SaaStr podcast.
So, in this day and age, you've got to
run twice as fast as you did [music]
before
to keep up or even get ahead of where
you thought you wanted to be.
So,
I cut. I started cutting. [music] I knew
I had to de-bloat. Very delete, delete,
delete. The path to rigor, as I like to
call it, is always going to come from
subtraction.
I go full ruthless. Some of my team
members like to call me [music] the
pitbull. I go ham.
We consolidated everything into one
operating system. And today, I'm going
to show you that new reality.
We're going to dive into the layers of
how I created visibility. Uh and this is
really where we started to see that
everything changed.
We've increased across our team [music]
our win rate
7% in two quarters just by creating
complete clarity around how to access
the things that you actually need to be
disciplined within the organization.
Hey everybody, SaaStr Annual will be
back May 2026. The world's [music]
largest SaaS and AI gathering for
executives with 68 VP level and above
attendees, 36% CEOs and founders, and
25% were AI first professionals. It's
the very best of S-tier attendees and
decision-makers that come to SaaStr
Annual and AI Summit each and every
year. Lock in your spot today. Use my
code Jason100
for exclusive savings. Get your tickets
at podcast.saastryear.com
or just use code Jason100 when you check
out. See you there. SaaStr Annual and AI
Summit 2026. It will rock.
Today, we're going to dive into some
tactics, but also the actual layers of
how I have built a remote-native
leadership organization and grown a
company from employee number five to
150.
So, I'm Marchelle Mooney, VP of sales at
Mangement. We are vertical SaaS for
salons and spas. And not only do we
serve an SMB market, I like to say it is
very SMB. So, our software alone is
roughly a 4,000 ACV. We also have
payment processing built in, so I'll
talk a bit about that. But, today I'm
going to show you how I built a remote
revenue organization with such rigor
that we're creeping up on a 7.2x ARR to
OTE, which is unheard of in the very SMB
market. So, we're going to pop into it
because the reality is AI is here to
expose you. And it's going to show your
entire organization what you're good at
and what you're absolutely terrible at.
But, the idea that the revenue is
growing
but we don't actually know what's going
on. Not necessarily in the day-to-day,
but those things that keep you up at
night. So, my CEO likes to say, "I only
like to think about one thing in the
shower."
And I know if he is not deeply clued in
to what's happening with win rate,
what's happening on the layer of if he
wakes up and notices that one AE's win
rate has plummeted, he needs to know
where he can go without having to send
me a message. So,
this is the real fear.
Not productivity, but actual visibility
into the organization.
So, this visibility gap has only grown
since many of us not natively moved into
remote companies over the past 5 years.
Some of us are hybrid. How many of you
are hybrid? You've got some remote, some
in office. Okay, great. I'm opening a
sales office, so that might be
contradictory to everything I'm saying
right now, but we're going to employ the
exact same rigor around that in-office
experience where we're incubating BDRs
into our sales team that we do in the
remote revenue organization. So,
we need a single source of truth. That's
true. Nobody's really got it from what
I've experienced. I sat at dinner last
night, but what I've heard is that
meetings are happening everywhere.
Especially in a non-hybrid environment.
You've got some people who are in
meeting in office. You've got some
trying to zoom in.
All of this creates decisions that
happen in people's heads in those 8
inches between their ears rather than on
paper.
Tasks live across different tools. I
like to say, "If I walked into your
office and I slipped you a note, you
weren't in there.
When you return to the office and you
read the note, you're probably going to
get back to me at some point or
acknowledge that you received it. If I
send you a damn Slack message and I
never hear back, it is very rude." So,
we've got to build rigor into how these
updates go. Things are scattered.
Knowledge isn't captured in any one
place.
So, we've got to rethink the way that we
build this. So,
I, of course, I went all in on AI. This
is also why I've been asked back to
speak at SaaStr because I'm pretty
hardcore about it. I'm like, "Why Why
would we ignore this thing?" So, I'm now
2 years into my AI journey into
go-to-market.
And I realized that me going all in on
AI was the actual problem my
organization had.
I installed everything.
Uh I was running literally like the AI
kitchen sink. It was just like, "What
can we throw in?"
And what I learned from that is that the
more AI I added
didn't help me understand what was even
happening.
For example, this was the first year I
brought in an EA.
I tend to be somebody who's like
hypercritical of every single move that
I make. I'm thinking about things 6
months in advance down to the point of
like what shoes I'm going to wear on
stage. So, bringing somebody into that
brain, it was more of a vulnerable state
of like, "Shh, do I really want to show
somebody what goes on up here?"
And uh
I had this moment where we're onboarding
team members. And I've got Fellow app
from Chelsea trying to join. And then
I've got this person sharing their
Renola notes. And I've got my notes over
here on a notebook from 1999.
So,
what I realized was actually,
what it made me feel like was that all
of us were walking into this meeting and
honestly, it was embarrassing to me that
my internal team couldn't figure it out.
We're paying for these tools and we're
not using them with any sort of
disciplines attached. So,
how does it start to feel? Well, like
this.
And the problem wasn't the tools, it was
the fragmentation of how things were
happening. Now, many of these tools have
only been in our hands for 14 months.
So, I'm I'm here to tell you that these
things move quickly and you've got to
move even faster. How many of you know
about the Red Queen's effect?
Okay.
What about Alice in Wonderland? Ever
heard of it? Seen the movie?
So, there's a scene in Alice in
Wonderland where she is running and she
is running so fast
and she is racing. Her heart is beating
and she realizes the trees
are moving right there with her and she
hasn't gotten anywhere.
So, the Red Queen comes in and explains
to her, "That's because the trees are
moving with you." So, in this day and
age, you've got to run twice as fast as
you did before
to keep up or even get ahead of where
you thought you wanted to be.
So,
I cut.
I started cutting. I knew I had to
de-bloat. Very delete, delete, delete.
The path to rigor, as I like to call it,
is always going to come from
subtraction.
I go full ruthless. Some of my team
members like to call me the pitbull. I
go ham.
We consolidated everything into one
operating system. And today, I'm going
to show you that new reality.
We're going to dive into the layers of
how I created visibility.
Uh and this is really where we started
to see that everything changed.
We've increased across our team our win
rate
7% in two quarters just by creating
complete clarity around how to access
the things that you actually need to be
disciplined within the organization. So,
I like to say let's keep the main thing
the main thing.
Earlier, I mentioned what are we able to
do? We are on the path in very SMB, like
I said.
An ACV of 4K and we're able to create
reps that are producing 7.2x ARR to OTE.
Is that good or is that great? Thank
you.
The AI rigor stack. This is what I'm
going to introduce.
This operating my like
model is all about first analyzing where
we work. So, for you, if that's in
office, that's where you start.
For me,
it's not in office. In 2020, I was
employee number six at Mangement and we
sat in this dinky little office where I
annoyed our co-founders, the four of
them at the time. Uh and basically ran
demos while they were trying to build
the product. And finally, they locked me
into a little room and I realized, "You
know what? I'm not going to commute to
this office anymore." And then the world
shut down and none of us did.
So, from employee six to employee 150,
we've been completely remote.
And what I realized is I had to recreate
the idea of an office for people to
understand how to integrate themselves
into that type of environment.
I'm seeing it even more now
with bringing up a team that's fresh out
of university
coming into the sales world, coming out
of sales programs, and I'm going, "Are
you sure you were in a sales program?"
Cuz I don't know what's going on here.
So, that is why we're opening a sales
office, but I digress.
The operating model needs to have three
layers.
But, the clarity layer is all about the
playbooks, the definitions, the things
those ICs need to know, but they're
never going to know inside out and
backwards. So, they need to be able, for
some, with a click of a few keys, for
me, by dictation, to access everything
that I need here. Number two is the
cadence layer. What does that mean? That
means when do things happen and how do
we know when they're reliably going to
be happening. So, these are your
reviews, your team updates, the rituals
that make your organization connect in.
And finally, my favorite, because this
is where I've been able to give my rep
16 hours a month back, the co-pilot
layer. So, that's your AI triggers, your
automations, the agents you're employing
within this stack.
So, now we're going to dive in a little
bit deeper and I'm going to show you
like literally what it looks like on my
day-to-day. So, I'm in a meeting, we're
recording this meeting, right? We're
transcribing it, whether you know it or
not. And then, from there, that meeting
needs to go somewhere because I said I
need to complete my slides, I'll have my
EA Taylor follow up on that. This is
where it goes. So, working in Notion,
that has become the main surface of my
work. This is where my team's playbook
lives, this is where the revenue
organization's playbook lives, we even
have our leadership playbook here, our
handbook here. Let me tell you, 4 years
ago, I thought Notion was for nerdy
bullet journalists who like to meet up
on the weekends and talk about Notion.
Today, if you you couldn't pry it out of
my cold dead hands. So,
when I'm done with the meeting,
by the way, I was chatting with the the
Notion agent this morning and soon,
I hope, they will be able to automate
this. This is still manual. I do have to
dictate, tell Notion to add this to my
database, but this meeting information
is going straight from my meeting into
the database. What happens next? So, the
meeting's over, it now lives in that
database. And let me tell you,
I didn't build any of this. The agent
built this. So, this is about saying two
sentences and getting something done,
but what's beautiful is immediately post
this meeting, which I laughed because my
slides were very late, in my opinion. Uh
so, when I made these, I was like,
"Let's move move the timestamps so
Amelia doesn't get too mad." I'm just
kidding. Uh so, we've got that task, but
if you look on the far side of the
screen, you can see these notifications.
I did not set any of these
notifications. I'm simply telling the
agent, or talking in the meeting,
saying, "Yeah, I'll have Taylor follow
up with that." I don't have to take
another action. By the time this is
processed, added to the database, I will
often hop out of that meeting,
check in with my EA at the end of the
day, and these tasks are done.
It's not just because the automation has
pushed the task for her.
What happens in the next couple of
slides really shows how the richness of
this type of database is important.
We've got tasks created, what's in
progress, what's the priority, all of
the notes are automated.
What's really important, though, is that
we have more richness to the data. So,
let's say I set a task for my EA based
from the meeting, "We need to follow up
on 2026 incentive planning."
How the heck does she know what 2026
incentive planning even looks like
if she wasn't in every single
one-on-one, or she hasn't spoken to
those revenue leaders that are working
on their incentives for 2026? This is
where we go back to the layer all about
cadence. So, again, we talked about
rigor. Rigor is how you handle the
disciplines you have in place. So, one
discipline we have in place here is our
weekly updates. So, within Notion,
every functional leader
from every part of the organization, not
just the revenue organization, posts a
weekly update. This can be a template
that you create.
Of course, I created my own, but it can
also be what works best for them. What
are the main things? If they just had
the main thing in that update, I'd be
okay as long as the main thing, if that
gets done, doing that one thing will
then eliminate the need for all the rest
of my questions. I'm good with that.
Sometimes they're very lengthy, but
either way, the access for this is
granted across the people that need it,
which would be Taylor, my EA. So, she
can now chat with her agent on that side
to understand the task at hand, the
context at hand, and be able to take
action autonomously without me involved.
So, finally, let's move on to that final
piece that lives in that communication
layer. This is where we have our
decision change log. This is something
that I find gets missed heavily in
remote organizations. Uh somebody
changes something in the product,
and then one person trains over here,
four of the AEs ever actually read the
product change log, a few people showed
up to the lunch and learn, but the other
50% of the organization has no idea
where to go to see those internal
changes. This could be something in the
product, but if you take a look at here,
these are real things that I've put into
the change log from my original. So,
compensation plan updates,
and then access is granted for those who
need it. So, you can access what you
need through the AI agent, but nothing
that you don't have permission to
access.
The decision change engine has been a
game-changer for us because it's this
idea,
you know, I'll never forget in my my
first job, uh it was actually with a
British man. He was a hairdresser. I was
a hairdresser for 15 years, and I
trained in a Vidal Sassoon salon. So, in
that salon, I'll never forget uh asking
him a question that was in our handbook.
Loved that job, learned so much there,
but the one thing he told me that really
stood out is, "It's not my job to tell
you, it's your job to know." Sounded
harsh in the moment, but I opened up
that dusty handbook, and there was my
answer. So, this decision change log
needs to work the same way. This is us
providing the information that you need
to do your job damn well, and it's
expected that you go there should you
need this information.
So, remote companies don't die because
people aren't working, they die because
the decisions and the changes aren't
communicated clearly, and your team does
not like that feeling. They want this
information. So, here's the top total
stack if we zoom out here.
Something that needs to be true, and
there are founders in the room.
If you've got shitty data, your job is
to go fix that and to find the people
you need to make it better.
The biggest challenges I hear from
RevOps,
from CROs I speak with, um from our own
head of data when he was looking at
joining our company, was purely around
the actual integrity of how our data was
set up. So, we had the benefit of from
day one having really beautiful data
infrastructure. So, that top layer is
the deep knowledge, all of the
communications, that's Slack and Notion,
but when we go down into the system of
record, we've got Salesforce for our
sales team, we've got our playbooks,
tasks, follow-ups in Notion, but the
data layer and the analytics are so
important because none of this can run
if people don't have access to the
information they need. So, Snowflake,
which we are using the Snowflake
intelligence, we've got all of our
product, our revenue, customer data in
one place, very clean, we do all of our
enriching, our entire TAM database is in
Snowflake. So, all of that's living
there, and then we've got Sigma. So,
Sigma BI tool that allows you to take
this, put it into dashboards. We build
everything there. I'm actually quite
allergic to Salesforce reports. Sorry,
but my thing is we really need to live
and work all in the same place, use it
for something quick, but let Sigma be
where we build out, and let the source
of truth from our data be that Snowflake
layer.
The automation layer is where a lot
happens. Uh I mentioned everything in
Notion, but it also is Slack. Slack is
the second surface and the most popular
surface for our ICs and for much of the
reg- revenue organization, but I also
popped on Momentum here. This has become
a new layer of automation, but it
doesn't provide a new login. All of the
work done through Momentum pushes into
Slack to keep us working in the office.
So, this is the whole system.
Slack and Notion are where we live.
Salesforce is that system of record for
the accounts. You know, we could go into
many past year, but to the point where
in Salesforce, I don't even use
opportunities. I said that to a RevOps
leader last night, and he just about
keeled over. But, you know, I realized
for an organization like mine,
our sales cycle is 5 days. We've got our
sales team selling, our onboarding team
onboarding on day three, our sales team
closing on day five, our onboarding team
taking the next 1 to 2 weeks to complete
the onboarding. I needed all of that in
one place. So, we've built it out custom
on the account so we can see everything
in one place. So, I really think deeply
about the way you look at your data, the
way you consume your data, and to be
obsessive about it, and if you're not
obsessive about it, find someone who is
and bring them in.
So, the magic is here. All the insights
start with the AI prompt. They get
pushed to the team. ICs do not have to
go hunting for a dashboard. All of that
data comes to them through Notion and
Slack.
This is the way that the information
actually flows through the teams. So,
product and revenue data that's living
in Snowflake comes into Sigma. I can
build in Sigma. Our data team builds in
Sigma. I don't love to build in Sigma.
So, I have a list that goes to that
team. They build there.
Everything that needs to be pushed to an
IC then goes into a Slack alert. One
example would be card fails.
Where does that live for you right now?
Does anyone know?
Okay, interesting. I know exactly where
that lives in my organization when a
card fails. Something doesn't go
through. You know, the invoice is past
due. This is going to push directly into
Slack to the person who needs to see it.
Customer call data, this is Momentum.
This is Snowflake Slack alerts
automatically to Salesforce and Notion.
This does not take a human to make this
data flow. This is all automated.
The execution flows happen with those
cadence layers. So, if we have an
internal meeting, that's going into
Notion. Somebody posts an update, that's
going into Notion. I can literally have
a conversation with my AI agent to
understand how this layer is flowing and
what emergencies need to be brought to
my attention.
Finally, should anything need to be
pushed into an executive summary, we do
use Momentum for that on the revenue
side. We also have that built out to
where from Notion or Slack, you can have
that information flow to the person that
needs it.
In our company, we like to think of data
and contacts flowing downstream
automatically. There should be no need
for this thing you cannot find.
Uh and reps don't need to go into
dashboards. I cannot repeat that enough.
They will not to go and find out what
their win rate is. You need to push it
to them.
So,
where the team actually works, I thought
this could be useful. This is kind of
starred down. The majority of the team
This is kind of secondary to their core
functions. So, if I'm a support team
member, I live in Intercom. However,
most communications, alerts,
escalations, we're living in Slack.
That's the office. We show up to Slack.
Notion is going to be where work
happens. So, tasks are completed,
decisions are made.
Salesforce system of record.
Reps are in there, I don't know,
10% of their time. So, very slim there.
Um Snowflake and Sigma, very rare for
most of the team, but even for the
leadership team, this is generally where
we're going because the data we need
that isn't is pushed to us isn't there.
So, recently I decided to look at a
trailing 30 and trailing 60 day. I
didn't have that on our win rate. So, I
did have to go into Sigma. We did have
to build something new, but it's not
common.
Okay, um Slack as well.
I'm going to dive into this just a
little bit because I mentioned earlier I
put a note on your desk, you don't get
back to me, that's rude. I have a whole
rulebook
on how to use Slack.
One of the first things you'll onboard
into my team is what happens when I send
a message at 2:00 a.m. Well, I've had
many suggestions. How many of you are
like, "Hey, for when you get back."
Okay, good. Cuz I won't spend the extra
2 seconds to say that. I also
don't schedule sends because that takes
time to hit schedule send. And half the
time I end up hitting enter anyway, so
it's all screwed up. Here's the deal.
When I onboard team members, I teach
them how we work. We work when we work.
And if you aren't working, go ahead and
set your notifications off. We're all
adults here. You need to manage your
time, your energy, your attention. That
is not my job. So, having this type of
rigor around the disciplines you expect
needs to be explicit.
If you are assuming and it is not
explicit, it will not happen. So, for
that fast async using Slack heavily as
the office, you've kind of got to think
in terms of that and then communicate
that to your team.
So, overall, this full thing is about
being really obsessive with having that
high level of discipline,
really low headcount for the volume that
you're doing, and maximum leverage among
that. So, I mentioned, you know, we're
roughly at 150 people in the
organization. They always say
organizations break there. I've felt
that. This is why I went so hard into
this. And over the next year, we've
employed a process where we're not going
into 2026 with a headcount spelled out.
I'm bringing on two AEs here, two AEs
there. We've decided to be completely
selective in our hiring process. So,
using these types of tools to ensure
that we can maintain that ARR to OTE
ratio that I mentioned,
how do we actually have conversations
among the leadership team where everyone
understands the information necessary to
select team members to add that really
makes sense? That makes sense for the
business and makes sense to the main
thing.
So, with that,
a little takeaway, some things to think
about.
You want to go back, you want to run an
AI rigor audit. What does that mean?
Rigor is how we handle the disciplines
that we've put in place. The disciplines
are the actual actions we have in place.
So, where do your meetings live? Do you
have some people using Zoom, some people
using Google Meet? How do you condense
it?
Now, in an enormous organization, think
of it by function and break things down.
Find the blip in the radar that you
don't know anything about and keep
zooming in until you figure out what's
going on there. Where do the decisions
live? So, we try to make as many
decisions asynchronously as possible
and only have a meeting should it
actually be to to sum up the solution.
We're not going to sit in a 2-hour
meeting just like hashing through things
that we could be reading or dictating to
each other.
So, what tool owns tasks?
Are your updates consistent across your
leadership board?
And are you using AI to enforce that
rigor amongst the organization? If the
answer is no to any of these, I'm here,
happy to answer questions for the next
few minutes.
Thank you.
Hi. Um thank you very much. This was
really useful because again, I run a
fully remote team.
Um and again, obviously that issue
around communication where you've asked
the question and it takes forever to get
feedback in. And just kind of curious
about like how do you in couple of
really interesting things that are
coming to mind when you're talking about
maybe getting to your point around
ensuring that people maybe
change their status that they are not in
they're not available if they're going
to be away from their desk. Because
again, sometimes you end up calling the
individuals like, "Oh, I stepped away to
get something done." But how do you kind
of reinforce that culture where there's
a lot more like responsiveness
especially around that communication
because that's the the entire
breadth of the organization especially
when you're fully remote in that sense.
So, if I'm hearing you correctly, you've
got a completely remote organization. At
this point, you're already witnessing
where you've got ICs who are not
available when you assume they would be.
Maybe they're on a customer call, but
you're not getting the responsiveness
that you expect. So,
like I said, once you've established
something, that becomes the status quo.
So, the two things that I would look at
is first, change management. So, you're
going to have to create a change. What
does that change look like? If if I were
me in your organization, I'd probably
take a couple dark days and I would just
plan out, what do I expect? Because
anytime we have an expectation, if it's
not met, it's probably because we
haven't been explicit about what that
thing is. So, the first thing I would do
is sit down, like what is my actual
expectation? Well, in my organization,
all calendars are public, even mine.
Two ICs, they can see if I'm free or if
I'm busy. And if I'm free, I will
respond to them even if it's a "Hey,
I'll get back to you in a few minutes."
For the ICs, I can see every
customer-facing call they have. This was
extremely important when we were really
small. And now, we have pod managers
that have a pod of up to eight ICs. They
need to be able to see their complete
calendars. Again, this is definitely
specific to the high velocity we run.
Our AEs are doing eight demos a day.
They close a deal to two deals a day.
Like they have to be able to be rigorous
and like really know what's going on
with them. So, first thing I'd do is
audit calendars and truly understand.
Like I've done the math. I know to close
20 deals at my organization, it takes
roughly 4 hours per deal max.
And these people,
30 hours a week, they can get into their
quota. But they've got to be disciplined
about it. It won't just happen by
chance. So, I know the math inside out
and backwards. I know what the calendar
should look like. I know what
responsiveness should look like.
And then I write that down.
This is all written down. This is now
documented. At my team, one of your
onboarding courses is going to be Slack
hygiene. What channels should you
completely mute? I have all of our
social channels completely muted.
Occasionally, I'll unmute like the dog
channel. That's cute. But then I mute it
again because I need to be able to focus
on the main thing. I do the same for my
team. I teach them how to mute 55 Slack
channels. Then I go in and I say, "These
are the channels that I expect highest
response
especially if it's like a sync DM
channel, that doesn't need a response
right away. If I DM you directly, that's
because I am walking into your office
and barging through the door and I'm
like, "Hey, here's this thing." If
you're not there, you're not there, but
you're going to get back to me in a DM
as quickly as you possibly can. So, I'm
writing that out. I am literally making
this explicit and then I'm creating that
change model where we have a database,
here's the change that's going into
effect. This type of change, I think you
need multiple touch points. So, I think
you need to write it, I think you need
to publish it, and I think you would
have a meeting with all of the people
who are involved in that change so they
understand explicitly what that's going
to look like going forward and then you
have to enforce it.
That's what I would do. Sweet. Well,
with that, I'm happy to hang if you guys
want to chat in person. Otherwise, um I
am on a panel with some fantastic Amelia
from SaaStr, Ashley from Momentum,
um and we just added one of the new AI
team members in Salesforce. So, it
should be a good panel. Hopefully, I'll
see you there.
Thank you.